[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[Music]
Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLotss podcast. I'm Jill
Weisenthal and I'm Tracy Aloway. Tracy,
there's a lot we've discussed about
multistrategy hedge funds, but there's
still a lot we don't know. And
specifically, although I've come to
learn things about comp and alignment
and the importance of risk management
and risk models and all that stuff, I
actually don't know like how how the
pods make good trades. This is part 298
of our attempt to understand multistrat
hedge funds. That's what it is. But
you're right, we haven't really looked
at it from the I guess the perspective
of a PM who is actually working there
and what it takes to get hired, what it
takes to avoid getting fired and things
like that. I have a feeling that like
avoiding getting fired is a really big
part of the story. Like you want to do
well, right? You want to make money and
all that, but I also get the impression
that you just want to hang on to that
seat for a really long time. And that a
big part of I don't know if the game is
the word, but a big part of the game is
yeah, holding on to that seat, avoiding
being part of any given call, avoiding
having your name show up on Bloomberg in
a story that gets read spiked about so
and so out after losing 260 million or
whatever in a trade. This is exactly
what I was wondering. Like how do the
draw downs actually impact a bunch of
PMs? Is it like really embarrassing and
does it have like an actual effect on
their trading? I imagine it does and it
must have an effect on their confidence
as well but I am very interested in this
subject and we have joked a number of
times about you know if we were at a
multistrat hedge fund things like that
so maybe we'll get a better idea yeah we
definitely have to learn more about the
pod level because I do get the
impression from talking to some people
we talked to running cosgrave recently
it's like oh you just put a bunch of
people in a room and if you have the
risk management right it kind of works
out anyway we're going to continue our
journey of learning more about these big
uh there's a natural affinity between
podcasts and pod shops. Oh, let's put it
that way. That's right. God, wouldn't
you hate it if like if we screwed up or
like we had like an episode that didn't
do very well and our traffic was down or
something and there was like a big
article on it's like Joe and Tracy out
after, you know, after one month of
underperformance on the podcast. Oh
yeah. Well, this is the other thing like
what happens if you outperform for like
half the year and then you underperform
for the second half of the year and how
is that actually calculated in terms of
your comp? Totally. And this came up
before which is that people who have
really good starts the fun at the fund
level you don't want them taking off
risk just to lock in their annual
bonuses. So these are important
questions. Anyway, let's dive right into
it. We have the perfect guest, someone
with a long track record and experience
across many aspects of this space. We're
going to be speaking with Brian
Yelington. He's currently a consultant
for executive search firm Carrington
Fox, but he's been a former analyst and
PM at several large multistrand funds,
Millennium, More Capital, etc. a few
others in there. And so, uh, Brian,
thank you so much for, uh, coming on
OddLots. Thank you for having me. Great
to be here. I always enjoy the podcast
and enjoy hearing the very subject you
guys come up with. Oh, thank you. We
love to hear it. We're going to clip
that and put it in the mix. Before we go
on, like why don't you just give us the
real brief version of like who are you
and why are we talking to you other than
the fact that if I go to your LinkedIn
page, there are a bunch of uh, famous
companies listed on it. Yeah, probably a
few too many for my taste to be honest.
I've kind of been one of the few people
who've been both a pod PM as well as
kind of helped bring those people into a
large multistrat. I left the risk-taking
world and went to work in the business
development area. Business development
is just a badly disguised euphemism for
manager selection, although it means
very different things at very different
firms. So, I've seen it both from a
junior analyst side to a senior PM to
the person who's the necessary if not
sufficient gatekeeper at a hedge fund.
I'm trying to think where to start
because there's so much for us to talk
about, but if I'm a PM and I am applying
to a multistrat,
what would my CV or resume actually look
like? And then B, would I even be
applying to a multistrat or would I be
head-h hunted and they would find me?
The chances are generally better that if
you're an established PM, you would
probably come either through, you know,
direct from the BD team who said, "We
need somebody who represents the same
risk that Tracy represents. We hear
she's great. We'd love to speak to her."
or through an executive search firm who
that's there's a lot of turnover in this
industry and they do a lot of business
as a result. So, how do you know if
someone is actually good? Because this
seems to be like one of the core
challenges in really all investing,
right? Like past results are no
guarantee of future returns. Everything
always says that. Uh you don't know it's
just a lucky streak, etc. So, u let's go
through this process. You want to
establish if someone is actually a good
investor or trader or portfolio manager
or whatever. Walk us through the steps
of like how you actually would identify
if Tracy is good at her job. Exactly.
Well, first a caveat. You're never going
to know. Okay. The reason that past
performance is not indicative of future
returns is because it's the future and
we never know how somebody's going to
act. So, what I'm going to do during our
first conversation, Tracy, is I'm going
to ask sort of like you guys did a
little bit about your background. I'm
going to be looking for things like
where we might know people in common,
where you might have worked for a really
good group or something like that that
had a great reputation. And then we're
going to get into the nitty-gritty of
the conversation where I ask you in
great detail, you know, what is your
edge? That part's actually not too
detailed. You should be able to
elucidate that sort of standing on one
foot. Then I'm going to go into Wait,
actually, can you pause? Just give me if
that's an easy part. What is it? Because
this is actually something that I'm
completely in the dark about. How does
someone go about articulating an edge in
plain English during an interview? Like
what does that actually sound like? You
say, "Okay, like Brian, what's your
edge? You used to trade fixed income at
where and where. Brian, what was your
edge?" Well, I probably didn't have a
very good one, but my edge was usually
from the research side. Uh what I will
tell you is PMs who are extremely good
at their jobs have boiled down what
their edge is to a very welldefined
two or three sentence elevator pitch
style answer. And the reason that
they're able to do that is because this
is something they've been doing a long
time and they've made a huge number of
mistakes and they know exactly the alpha
that they want to identify are good at
identifying and what they go after. So,
it's going to sound different for
everybody. For, you know, a macro RV
type of fund, it may be that they really
anticipate the um the shifts in monetary
policy. For a credit fund, it's that
maybe they understand, you know,
corporate actions and they're really
good at reading between the lines of
maybe even a specific niche of
companies. Um, so it's going to differ,
but you can usually tell by someone's
answer there, how much they thought of
it. The bad answers tend to be something
that relies on experience. I'll note
that there aren't too many oxygenerian
PMs or something that relies on, well,
I'm just really good at this. You kind
of have to be able to identify it to to
be good at it. So, going back to
performance metrics, like what figures
or numbers are actually available here?
You know, does a potential PM come
bearing sharp ratios? And then how does
the uh potential hiring firm actually do
due diligence on some of those numbers?
It's difficult and the the reality is
that you know P&L even within a firm as
a BD person and again BD is very
different from firm to firm. But if I
were to hire Tracy as a PM I'm
regretting using myself as an example by
the way. This is good. This is good. No,
we're going to have you do well.
we'll we'll flunk out somebody else. But
if we were to fire Tracy, in some places
I might not even be aware of how she's
doing six months after we hired. At
others, I would have kind of perfect
insight. P&Ls are extremely closely
guarded secrets. Usually they're not
discussed within the firm except for a
very few select group of people and
nobody's going to attest to that P&L,
right? You of your own accord, Tracy,
might provide some assurance to
somebody. Maybe it's because you're past
comp or something. They can't ask, but
you can certainly say, "Hey, by the way,
there's proof that I did what I did.
That's your prerogative." Wait, why
can't they ask? I believe that's an
employment law. You're not allowed to
ask. Uh, it might not been designed to
protect uh hedge fund PMs, but I believe
it does cover them somewhat. Tracy, I've
brought it up once or twice. I told you
I have talked about the time that I
interviewed at a prop trading firm,
right? Many, many times, Joe. Yes. Are
you going to tell the story again? You
can if you want. I'll just tell the
brief one, which is that when I was
living in Austin, which you are, Brian,
you're there now. I interviewed at a
prop trading firm when I was right out
of college. There were 200 interviews
and they asked me about my own trading
when I used to day trade on Erade by
myself and I told them a little about my
trades. They made me play a video game
to test my hand eye coordination and
then they made me play ping pong against
the CEO. I'm not really sure what that
was all about, but then I was one of I
was one I was one of four people who got
offered the job and then for some reason
I didn't take it. Didn't you work at a
sandwich shop and I was making
sandwiches at the Wheatzville Food Co-op
at the time and all my friends were
working there. I was like, I don't
really feel like working the corporate
life just yet and everything worked out
and it was fine. That's still one of the
stranger times of my life. But it was
kind of like this where they asked me
specifics. All right, here's a more
important question. It's great to say
like if you're a PM then you show, but
the first you got to become a PM. What
does an analyst do? So, so a PM has a
pod and they have analysts in their pod.
What does an analyst actually do? Just
as with the street, you know, how
they're analysts in function and
analysts in rank, if you will, odds will
generally have analysts covering, you
know, specific areas. Basically, at most
firms, it's sort of a euphemism. If you
have trading authority, you're either a
trader, a subpm, or a PM. If you do not
have trading authority, but you're still
committing or contributing to investment
decisions, you're an analyst. It's just
a generic catchall term.
But you are generally in charge of
building the you know specific type of
surveillance that the pod needs. You may
have names or industries or specific
areas of a specific market to cover and
you're being eyes and ears and you will
have specific projects. You know in our
current environment there's no no
shortage of things to test out and look
into as to how policies may change. So
if you're in a macro pod you're probably
pretty busy right now. presumably you
don't have to make perfect PowerPoint
presentations for potential deals and
things like that. It's much more idea
generation and I guess like back
testing. There's, you know, there again,
it kind of depends on the type of pod
that you're in. If you're in a very
directional macro pod, you're probably
looking for a lot of historical
analoges. You know, how has policy
responded in the past? If you are in a
more quantitatively oriented pod, maybe
something that does some form of
arbitrage, yes, lots of back testing,
lots of mathematical competency, but
it's interesting who I've seen make the
jump. I've seen a salesperson who
basically just sent out a weekly
commentary with a model portfolio in it
and people loved it and PM said, "Hey,
we want to talk to this person. Will you
go talk to him for us?" analysts,
publicing analysts. Joe, you and I
actually have a mutual friend that
you've had on the show before who was
kind of up writing for a newsletter. And
it was a newsletter I can tell you that
most every PM I knew in macro was
reading and he built his audience on
Twitter or X, sorry, that doesn't make a
very good verb.
[Music]
All right. And then if I am running a
pod shop, what exactly am I looking for
in terms of potential PM? So, I get
probably past performance even though,
as we discussed, it's not a perfect
indicator of future performance, but am
I looking at personality? Like would I
hire a complete jerk who happens to be a
star trader because it doesn't really
matter how he works with other people
because he's going to be completely
independent or would I be looking at it
very holistically and taking a sort of
moneyball approach where I'm trying to
fill in or plug specific gaps in my
overall business with maybe players or
traders that are undervalued by the
market. I think you're always trying to
play the moneyball approach. However,
most hedge funds differ a lot in how
internally they communicate. There are
some hedge funds where you're really not
allowed to talk to people from other
pods. Like I might say something to you,
Tracy, like I like the market here. I
don't like it here. But I would never
say, you know, I'm shorting the 2-year
versus the three-year DVL1 weighted
something specific. And that's to avoid
kind of crosscontamination of the pods.
Whereas there are others who really
value the Aspree decor and they like to
have people collaborate and those places
not only are you going to have the
typical meetings with BD and risk and
the CIO but you're also going to meet a
lot of other PMs to make sure that you
know you're not a jerk. Let's talk more
about getting a job as an analyst. There
are probably a lot of people maybe
they're in college listening to this
episode right now. I think that if I
were young and in college and didn't
have any obligations, I would like this
sounds really fun working for a multi
strategy hedge funds. I would love to
get my door in one, what would be like,
what should I do to get that first role?
There are a few firms that hire direct
from college, direct from university.
Those are very, very small programs.
Normally, there's only a few of them
that scale. I would say typically people
who first move into a pod as an analyst
or perhaps a subpm generally come from
the sell side, okay, or maybe prop, but
they generally have spent a couple of
years on the sell side, have a lot of
the great training that the street can
provide and have advanced themselves to
where they are saying, you know, I no
longer just want to make markets. I
actually want to trade my own risk. So
you get a job on the sell side and you
establish yourself as someone who knows
something who people like reading from
and who people like reading their, you
know, their takes and their models and
have interesting insights to say about
whatever asset class is being traded.
Either that or you have a business that
actually would work good on the buy side
and it just happens to be in the sell
side. But in terms of how you get that
first job, I would say be useful. think
that everybody is kind of concentrated
on the, you know, I want to be coming up
with the ideas that go into the book and
you sort of grow into that slowly. But
if you're somebody who, you know, has
read the history or done the work or
researched, you know, what happens when
on the first Fed cut, what happens on
the last, what happened in the dollar,
the last time we had tariffs, those
sorts of analoges in the macro world are
very good. If you understand
restructurings, you're probably going to
be pretty valuable to high yield or
distress pod. You're not going to get
that, you know, I've got the con kind of
job right away. So, you need to be
useful in the job you're applying for.
And then you kind of touched on this
before, but I would love to hear more.
What are the pools that multistrats are
actually drawing from? And have those
changed over time? like you know when
they first started popping up were they
hiring from fund of funds and the cell
side and then as they progress maybe get
a little bit more experimental and start
diversifying into other industries to
draw PMs from. Yeah. I mean, for
instance, we've seen a lot of interest
in commodities PMs over the past few
years, and a lot of those are at trade
houses or perhaps they work for large
oil and gas companies, a lot of which
are really more engineering than
trading. They'll look anywhere if
there's sort of, you know, a definable
edge. And we were talking a little bit
about, you know, the process of
interviewing. Part of what somebody's
looking for is, you know, can we do what
you do? I'll give you an example. funds
really want to expand their balance
sheet and be as efficient with it as
possible. If we look at gross notional
exposure to net assets for multistrats,
we hovered around 10 10x through about
2020 and since then now we're between 14
and 16 and that's grossing assets up as
a multiple of their investable assets.
So that tells you they're looking for
things that are a little bit more highly
leverable,
but any edge they they will look at. You
know, 15 years ago, no multistract
traded munis. Most all of them do now.
You know, there were certain businesses
like index rebound, things of that
nature, basis type trades that once were
the exclusive province of the street and
now because the ability of a lot of
these multistrats to effectively lose
use their balance sheet, they can engage
in those businesses. Right? This is one
of the themes that's come up is the sort
of like post DoddFrank era where a lot
of certain types of trades that used to
exist in-house at the major banks are
now have now effectively been outsourced
in some manner to buy side entities
where it's more appropriate to take
these risks. Let's talk about your time
when you were a PM. We talked about the
value of the seat and not getting fired.
And I also get the impression that on a
sort of day-to-day or week to week or
tradeto trade basis there's a lot of
constraints from the risk manager. Talk
about the incentives of the PM to
survive and make it to the next year or
make it to the next bonus season. I mean
you can essentially think of working for
a multistrat as you're running your own
business. Okay, you're sort of running
your own fund, but you only have one
client. So you have to make very sure
that that client's happy. Your
constraints are usually put in in you
know two terms. You'll often hear the
term capital thrown around. You know
Tracy manages 700 million at XYZ and Joe
has 50 million at ABC. That sort of
thing. The truth is those aren't really
easily comparable numbers, right? The
hedge fund itself is inherently
leveraged. They'll typically allocate
somewhere between three and four times
their notional value, maybe even more in
terms of allocations to traders. So if
you've got a billion dollars, you're
allocating out theoretically three or
four billion. But there are two numbers
that are going to matter a lot to a PM.
The first one is how much can I lose?
That's your draw down. And there are two
ways to measure that. Most hedge funds
are going to measure it on a peakto
trough basis. Meaning even if you're up
five, if you give back, suppose your
stop is seven. If you give back seven,
then that's going to be your draw down
even though you really weren't down from
zero much at all. The other way to
measure that is from zero from flat. So
you can actually be fired from one of
these places and be up money on the year
when it happens. You just gave back too
much of your sort of new money. So
actually explain that further. A why
would you fire someone who's managed
money profitably? But then here's
another related question to that is like
you hear about okay someone gets fired
from place X and then they go get a new
job at place Y. But if they're
objectively talented and maybe they're
not, but if by some measure it can be
established that they're talented, why
are the pods so quick to fire them? I
mean I get yeah you lose money that's
not good but if you know losing money
happens if the person has talent why the
quick fires it helps if you think of the
multistrat itself is managing a
portfolio themselves but it's a
portfolio of risk takers not to be
reductive but generally most of those
types of decisions are made on a fund by
fund basis in other words you know maybe
this person is not as uncorrelated to
what we have as we already thought they
are not really making a lot of money.
They just exceeded their draw down
because it's not like they don't know
that it's a ge trough number. They're
perfectly aware of it. Or perhaps
there's another opportunity in the
market to replace them with someone
better. They're always looking to
optimize their portfolio of risk takers.
As far as the other firm, they could be
thinking, "This person does fit what we
need and we really like their risk
profile." Even a really great PM is
going to have a significant draw down
every two to five years. And there
aren't too many who've gone 10 plus
years with no losing years. You know,
you just don't want to be that person
who experiences that 5% of the time draw
down in your first few months in a new
fund. I used to know a credit guy who
always said like you're not a proper
credit trader until you've had at least
one major blow up.
Maybe maybe that's true. But on this
note, okay, if I get a big draw down, I
understand maybe it it depends on where
I am with my career and if I get it in
the first 6 months of working at a shop,
that would be very bad. But if it's in,
you know, year six or something, maybe
it doesn't matter so much. But how
embarrassed am I when that happens? And
am I like publicly shamed within the
organization for this happening or how
does it work? Exactly. You know, it's
sort of funny because obviously we had a
a period just a few months back where
there were a lot of headlines about
large losses as the marketplace views
it. It's going to feel awful to the PM,
right? You never want to be on the
screen for a loss. But whenever you see
somebody up there with a hundred million
loss, that means they had a hundred
million to lose, which means that they
were managing a large book and they were
taking a lot of risk. And if you'll
notice, some of those PMs from a few
months ago are still exactly where they
were. You are really generally better
off getting bounced for a large loss
than you are a small one. This goes fits
with something one of my beliefs that a
billionaire is someone who either has
positive $1 billion in net worth or
negative 1 billion in in one billion in
debt cuz you have to be like really rich
to have lost that much money. And
anytime you hear about like a former
billionaire and they lost everything,
they're almost always still somehow
living large. So being deeply deeply in
debt is almost as good as having tons of
money. So I'm glad to hear this. How
does that constrain your actual trading?
Okay, you know that draw down number,
you know, at the point where you're
going to get stopped out of the seat.
How does that actually translate into
thinking about the trades that you put
on? I hate to do an it depends but it
sort of depends on where you're at
because even though common draw down for
you know limits are usually somewhere
between seven and 10% for what's called
a stopout you might end up getting your
capital reduced well before that at 3
and a half or five and that makes it
really really hard to come back. The key
is, you know, do you have a process? Do
you have risk management and portfolio
construction where you are still
applying your risk management? I'm only
going to risk this much my risk capital.
What is between me and a capital
reduction or draw down? I'm going to be
pickier. I'm going to trade smaller.
There are a lot of funds that have, you
know, internal coaches, psychologists
like this. Wendy Rhodess is based on
real people who do real things. And you
know, certain firms will sit you down
and talk to you or they'll make you take
a time out. Other firms will just say,
"That's it. You're out." But
psychologically, it makes you you want
to get it back, which is not a great
feeling because even when you get there,
you're just at flat. And it it really
impacts your risk-taking tolerance. I
think one of the best things that, you
know, I ever heard was if you're kind of
in a losing streak, just get flat and go
away. Don't keep any marginal things.
You can always buy it back later. You
can always sell it later, but get your
mind right. But it does negatively
affect you. And you you kind of skew
your thinking either to I'm going to
take more bets to get it back faster or
I'm not going to do anything because I'm
going to be so picky. Overtrading is
really common. I'll give you for
example. People coming from the sell
side almost always overtrade when they
first get to the buy side. The reason is
trading has a positive expected value
for them. They are in the bid ask. Oh,
not only that, but facilitation desk on
the sell side, they lose money if V
explodes, but they generally make a lot
of more money after it subsides. The bid
ask widens out and they could collect a
lot of client flow in the back end of
that. One of the questions that I always
ask people is, you know, tell me about
your biggest draw down. What did hap
when was it? What was going on? What
happened? would you do? And the sell
side traders will always have very quick
times to recovery and they expected to
get it back. But that's not the positive
expected value you have on the buy side.
It cost you money to trade.
[Music]
Brian, tell me about your biggest draw
down and what it was and what you did.
Oh, well, my biggest draw down was
losing my job. I can't name numbers, but
essentially I violated my own risk. I
usually never speculated on outright
vault and I had a long ball position and
I normally would have structured that as
a spread and I didn't. And though I was
directionally right, I bought really
expensive wall and therefore didn't make
much money. Got hit on volatility and a
much larger fashion than I thought I
would. And I was in that camp of not a
big draw down and it was almost unreal
to people that I knew. Like why would
they let you go? Because there's not a
lot of verifiable information out there.
That always sounds very suspect to
people. I wish I could be more colorful
for that, but I can't.
That's really helpful. But on this note,
I'm also curious, do PMs ever go to like
risk managers or the people above them
and beg for like either more money or
more risk tolerance? Oh, absolutely. And
a lot of a lot of firms actually have,
you know, programs where if you have
something that's really scalable that
you think is very functional, they may
give you sort of a side account and you
you get paid on that, but it's not part
of your regular book. Once you work in
BD, a lot of the people who you bring in
sort of ask you questions like, "Hey, I
want to do this. Who should I ask? When
should I ask?" And I generally tell PMS,
unless it's an actual trade idea, don't
just ask for more capital. Unless it's
one of two situations. Number one, you
just got there because they love you.
You haven't done anything wrong and they
just probably paid up to get you. Number
two, you've just made a hundred million
bucks. Other than those two situations,
don't ask for things. Wait, let's talk
more about violating your own risk book.
There's a famous story from Stan Ducken
Miller where he apparently like bought
the very top of the internet bubble and
he says, "You ask me what I learned. I
didn't learn anything. I already knew
that I wasn't supposed to do that. I was
just an emotional basket case and
couldn't help myself. So maybe I learned
not to do it again, but I already knew
that." When a fund manager is sort of
like violate or a PM is violating some
of their own things, do they know it? Do
they feel differently? Do they get like
some sort of acidic taste in their
mouth? When I like go on tilt when I
play poker, I always sort of know it,
but I can't help myself anyway. Like I
just do it and I go all in and I know
ahead and then I have to embarrassingly
walk out of the table. Like what does
that feel like? Talk about like what's
going on in someone's brain when they're
like taking these risks that on paper
they shouldn't be. Well, usually you
only recognize it in the rear view. If
you slow down and think through the
trade, you know, you sort of realize
that, hey, you probably shouldn't do
this. But I think you're paralleled with
being on tilt at a poker table. It's
it's that knowledge, you know, after you
call somebody or after you raise that
instant feeling that, man, I just leaped
up. It's that feeling only you're going
to feel it for a few days and you're
going to get a little email or call from
your risk manager and then you're not
going to know what that sit down's going
to be like. It might be, hey, no big
deal. Get back out there. You know,
don't worry about it. It may be an
entirely different conversation. You may
be told, "Go to HR. Don't take your
jacket." Huh? Or take your jacket, I
should say. But it isn't a bad feeling.
And I think some of the better mentors
that I've had through the years have
kind of taught me like that mental
health thing and where you're at is is
very important. And I think it's even
worse when you're at a a multistrat or a
situation where you have a a single
client. That's it. If that one client
isn't happy, you are probably out for at
least 6 months and potentially much
longer. The BD process to bring a new PM
on board is somewhere around 3 months on
its own. Do you do postmortems on
winning and losing trades? Kind of, you
know, like after forget talk about
poker, you go back and you run the poker
hand through a solver and you see if you
played it correctly often whether you
made money or lose money. Is there an
equivalent process that's done in the
trading world? 100%. As a matter of
fact, if you guys have never had Brent
Donnelly on, uh, he wrote a book called
Alpha Trader, and I've probably never
seen that information written down in
one place before, but it's fantastic.
Yeah, we should have him back on or
something to talk about just now. But
keep tell us more about it from your
perspective. Yes, you know and and that
is part of the other process like we
mentioned edge like the other parts of
the beauty process. I want to know the
process by which somebody selects
trades. I want to know about their
portfolio construction and I want to
know their approach to risk especially
on risk. You'll find that very good PMs
and especially these firms, the firms
themselves, even though the PM may not
see it, they know exactly how many bets
you've taken, they know about your hit
rate, they understand your skew, they
can sort of tell when you're deviating
from your risk mandate. They have a lot
of analytics, but it's been my
experience that the best PMs look at it
themselves. They're almost religious
with it. You know, how did I do today?
It's very similar to an athlete watching
tape or or a dancer. My daughter's loves
dance. You know, she'll watch tape of
herself. This is what I missed. This is
what I didn't do. And the great benefit
of doing it in a statistical fashion is
you can remove, oh, I won't count that
because it was a Tuesday and a full
moon. Any excuse you have goes out the
window. Those are the numbers.
On this note, and since Joe brought up
poker earlier, are there like popular
ways to become a better better does that
work for audio? better a better better
and and I'm thinking you know I'm
thinking back to Liars Poker that's a
famous example and then wasn't there
something at Jane Street that Sam
Bankman Freed was doing a bunch of
different like gambling games like that
yeah like what is popular in terms of I
guess building up your risk return
muscle well I think anything where you
have some element of strategy and I
think one of the reasons that poker is
so popular is that it combines not only
strict strategy like you might see in
chess, but also a fair degree of
complete randomness. And you're going to
take some bad beats and that's going to
happen in trading. It's easy to forget,
but a really good PM might have a 52 53%
hit rate on their trades. It becomes
what their skew is, how much they make
on their winners versus how much they
lose on their losers. So, anything where
you're actually becoming more in tune to
your own risk-taking, your ability to
think in what you know, most people call
probabilistic terms or thinking in bets
after the Eddie Duke book, any exercise
like that. And I think poker is probably
just the most popular. It's also a great
fun I don't know whether I'd say team
building game, but it's a fun social
game that people play often around hedge
funds and it it fits with the gambling
mentality. So, we hear about it a lot,
but there are a lot of different
internal games that people uh engage in.
I just have one last question and it
goes back to the role of the analyst and
you mentioned, oh, maybe, you know, an
analyst could be valuable if they really
know the history of what happens if
they're X or Y. I could just look that
up on 03 on Chad GPT or Perplexity these
days. Like how realistic is it in your
view that firms could meaningfully
reduce analyst headcount by using
artificial intelligence or if they save
money on by using artificial
intelligence would that just create new
roles for more sort of advanced
research? Like where we at with this?
You must talk to people uh about what
what they're doing with this. I think
there's lots of things they can do and
obviously you know you're talking about
pretty secretive organizations. So
there's an enterprise sharing issue
there to deal with, but yeah, a lot of
things could be really computerized, but
you're also looking for people who are
going to be able to tie the story and
the narrative in with what was going on
with the instruments. And it's probably
not something so simple as, you know,
what did the dollar yen do the last time
the Fed hiked. It might be something
more like what was a reds greens puts
foot puts steepener doing the last time
the Fed hiked which you're going to
require a lot of modifications to those
AI models. I'm always hesitant to talk
about this because I can remember we
were told that all the paper companies
were going to go out of business because
everybody was going to read everything
online and what happened? We just all
printed it. Oh yeah, that's true. So and
they and they a lot of them also sell
cardboard boxes and so they they
benefited from e-commerce. those same
companies actually. Absolutely. Georgia
Pacific is is probably huge in in
Amazon's warehouse. But I think that
there will always be people who because
this industry thrives on, you know, I
can do this even though the odds are
very much against me. Uh and they will
definitely use any edge they can
getformationally as far as analytics or
anything like that. But usually there's
something that you're going to have to
ask that maybe not everybody understands
or knows. I think everybody who's in
this business got into it in one way or
another and somebody handed them what I
just generically call, you know, street
porn, which is the market wizards books
or any of those types of things. And
they're fantastic because what I got out
of reading those types of books is
there's a lot of different ways to make
money. You just have to find out what
you're good at and how you can apply
your particular set of skills and
attributes to doing it. And I think that
there's going to be somebody who gets
really good at asking, you know, one of
these AI models market questions and
that person is going to get built up.
We're already seeing inquiries for heads
of AI at several different funds and I
think that that's going to continue as
they explore more and more, you know,
what they can actually do with it. they
have no problem spending money on the
either the AI or the human being. It
will ultimately come up to who can
perform.
So how do you avoid I guess group think
among your PMs because the whole point
of multistrats is those uncorrelated
returns and you don't want everyone just
putting on the same trades either
literally or maybe through another
angle. And I'm thinking specifically
about journalism. So, some newspapers
used to always move reporters from a
certain beat after they'd been there for
like 10 years or something. And the idea
was just to shake it up a little bit and
make sure that they're not getting like
too cozy or too comfortable with that
particular industry. The downside of
doing that, of course, is that you lose
expertise.
But I'm just wondering like how do
people Yeah. How do people avoid that
group think aspect and make sure that
everyone's doing, you know, new stuff
kind of independently? Well, one way is
limiting the communication between the
pods. Some places do not really allow
their pods to communicate. Another way
is basically structurally you you don't
want to see people hang on to each
other's trades. You're going to be
looking at this from, you know, a macro
view within the firm. you're going to
see this type of trade that this person
had on is increasing in size in the
firm. But by and large, if you've hired
right, you're going to hire independent
thinkers and a seasoned PM will tell
you, I might like somebody else's idea,
but I can't really trade it properly,
unless it's my idea, too. I kind of have
to adopt that as my own. So, group think
is not as prevalent as you would think
because it's structurally prohibited in
some places. in the places where it's
not, you know, a seasoned PM is like,
hey, I may love that trade that you
pitched me, Joe, but it that's yours.
And I can't I'm not doing my job if I
say, Joe, when are we getting out of
this? That's not what I'm paid to do.
Um, so part of it is on the part of the
PM internally, and then the other part
of it is on the fact that they don't
want to be seen as copying the next
guy's trades. All right, but just real
quickly, you maybe you don't want to do
group think or copy the next guy's
trades, but if there's a hot beta,
right? You're always looking for alpha,
but if there's a hot beta like AI beta
or whatever, or falling inflation beta,
like some of these long-term trends, but
that's not your thing. Do PMs find ways
to backdoor their asset class into the
hot trade in a way that like may de
facto become trade crowding? Yeah, a
former boss of mine used to say,
"There's never been a riskmanagement
framework that a smart trader couldn't
outwit." That's what I'm wondering.
That's like, is it this cat-and- mouse
game where you're in part trying to
outwit the person who could tap you on
the shoulder by trading something that
looks like something else? Yeah, there's
a lot of downside to doing that, you
know, if you don't have a trade kind of
properly thought out. But, you know, in
general, if if I hire one of you to
trade credit and the other one to trade
the front end of the yield curve and,
you know, all of a sudden Brazil is very
hot, the the real and you're both asking
me for limits on the real, like, you
won't have limits in something that you
don't already trade. Okay. So, you can't
really deviate from your mandate too
much. It's kind of I'll just find a
credit spread that's correlated with the
rail. Seriously. Yeah. or or you know
there are a lot of ETFs that basically
contain macro trades if you will and I
I've often wondered you know are those
there so that mutual fund managers can
you know and investing in equities can
speculate on the yield curve but there
are always ways to do it you just have
to kind of hire the right people who
aren't necessarily going to do that and
if you get in trouble for something like
that I sort of like to say that this is
the second most bureristic industry in
in America
word gets out as as large of an industry
it is, it's not that big and in
individual areas and if somebody has
really done something unourred, then
it's people are going to hear about it.
Brian Yelington, thank you for coming on
OddLots and talking about getting and
keeping multistrat jobs. Our journey
continues. Thank you so much. Really
appreciate uh chatting with you. Thank
you. Thank you for having me. It's great
to get to talk to you guys.
[Music]
Tracy, if I were like young, I think I
or if I were in college or something, I
think I would have taken that trading
job now. I mean, I like the way my
direction life direction went, but if I
like wanted to do over, I I'm curious
what that fork in the road looks like.
There'd be no odd thoughts. That's so
sad. It' be a different part, you know,
like there I I feel like I I would I
would trade. You know what would happen?
There would still be an odd lots. I
would trade for a while. I would blow
up. I would get a job in journalism. And
then I would be one of those journalists
who reminds all of their colleagues all
the times that they used to work in
finance. I would be like the person on
the call. They're like, I just love the,
you know, it's like I was like, oh, I I
used to work at a multi strategy hedge
fund. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I used to
be a trader. Anyway, sorry. Keep going.
Joe, how many times have you brought up
that interview with the trading company?
on this note. Okay, that was really
interesting. One thing that kind of
jumps out at me is the last discussion
about, you know, how do you avoid
everyone just taking on the same risk?
It really seems to me like it's
correlation built on correlation built
on correlation, right? And I often think
correlation is one of the hardest things
to actually nail down on Wall Street.
So, you know, you got to wonder. So far,
so far, you know, a bunch of multistrats
survived um April pretty well. Yeah. So,
I guess we'll see. I think if I were a
risk manager and I had one person
trading credit and the other person
trading the short end of the yield curve
and suddenly their month-to-month return
started looking identical and it
happened to be identical with the person
who traded Brazilian Royale, that would
set off a red flag for me, you know,
like I feel like the return profile
itself is probably part of the hint,
right? that even if you can't really
articulate why this person's trade is
secretly this person's trade in
disguise, if their return profile looks
too similar, that probably it sets off
some red flags. We got to talk to a risk
manager, don't we? Yeah, we should do
that. Okay. If you're a risk manager,
you want to talk about what that job is
like. Or if you know one, shoot us a
message. All right. Shall we leave it
there? Let's leave it there. This has
been another episode of the Odd Thoughts
podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You can
follow me at Tracy Aloway and I'm Jill
Weisenthal. You can follow me at the
stalwart. Follow our producers Carmen
Rodriguez at Carmen Arman Dashel Bennett
at Dashbot and Kale Brooks at Kaleb
Brooks. For more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlots
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
all of these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlots.
And if you enjoy OddLotss, if you like
our ongoing exploration of multistrat
funds, then please leave us a positive
review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can listen to
all of our episodes absolutely adree.
All you need to do is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.
Heat.
[Music]